---
title: "Intel Ethernet I211 vs I219 and Linux Drivers igb vs e1000e"
excerpt: "What's the difference between these two Ethernet interfaces and corresponding drivers?"
category: hardware
tags: [hardware, linux, intel, networking]
header:
  image: https://i.imgur.com/DWOIBZW.jpg
  overlay_color: "#000"
  overlay_filter: "0.5"
  overlay_image: https://i.imgur.com/DWOIBZW.jpg
---

## Which Network Interface is Better?

My new [ASRock Z270 Taichi](http://www.asrock.com/MB/Intel/Z270%20Taichi/) comes with two network interface cards that Linux identifies as:

    $ lspci -nnk | grep -A2 Ethernet

	00:1f.6 Ethernet controller [0200]: Intel Corporation Ethernet Connection (2) I219-V [8086:15b8]
			Subsystem: ASRock Incorporation Device [1849:15b8]
			Kernel driver in use: e1000e
	--
	07:00.0 Ethernet controller [0200]: Intel Corporation I211 Gigabit Network Connection [8086:1539] (rev 03)
			Subsystem: ASRock Incorporation Device [1849:1539]
			Kernel driver in use: igb

Since I only need one the question was raised: Which should I use?  I'm sure the hardware performance is comparable but what driver is less drama?

A quick Google search for "igb vs e1000e" yielded no results other then a few others asking the same question with no answer.

## Dig into the Hardware Datasheet

The `I219` (`8086:15b8`) is clearly the network interface MAC integrated into my Z270 PCH as it has the same PCI address as all the other PCH peripherals.  The `I211` appears to be a dedicated discrete chip.

[Intel ARK comparison](http://ark.intel.com/compare/82186,64404) yields nothing of interest either.

The Intel datasheets for the [I211](http://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/embedded/products/networking/i211-ethernet-controller-datasheet.html) and [I219](http://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/embedded/products/networking/ethernet-connection-i219-datasheet.html) start to give us some real perspective though.

From the datasheet the `I211` seems to be much more featured (or at least is better documented and has a longer datasheet).

Details from the datasheet worth noting:

* **Receive Side Scaling (RSS)** support on both up to two RSS queues per TX and RX (didn't check if each driver supports them).  Interestingly, the `I210` supports up to four RSS queues and may result in better performance at very high load.
* **Jumbo Frames** up to *9KB* on `I219` and up to 9.5kB on the `I211`.
* **Low power** features on the `I219` claims to consume less then 1 mW with Ethernet cable disconnected (perfect for not using it).
* Receive Side Coalescing (RSC) not available on either.
* **Direct Cache Access (DCA)** is available on the `I211`.
* **CPU Offloading** features supported by the `I211` include TCP segmentation and various checksums.  The `I219` only advertises ARP offloading support.
* Virtualization features like VMDq are not supported.
* **VLANs** are supported.
* **[Linux PTP](http://linuxptp.sourceforge.net/)** is supported by the `I211` + `igb` driver for precision timestamping with IEEE 5188.  Verify with `ethtool -T eth0`.

## Dig into the Linux Kernel Driver

A quick glance over the `Kconfig` of Linux 4.10 shows that the `igb` driver has many more options like HWMON (if supported by hardware, doesn't appear on my `I211`) and DCA.  That's good.  The E1000E driver doesn't have any bells or whistles to flip on or off, but they could be supported.

Stability? No clue, I've used the `e1000e` driver before on an add-in-card (`EXPI9301CT`, `8086:10d3`) and never had any issues, but that's par for the course these days in Linux and the cheap `r8619` are practically as solid.

## Conclusion: Pick the I211

The `I211` with the `igb` driver is the clear winner.  It worked out of the box on Arch Linux on kernel 4.9.6.  The hardware supports a few more minor bells and whistles to improve performance while lowering CPU load and the support from the kernel driver leverage these features.  The `I219` is built into the Z270 chipset and has less features but uses less power.

Use the `I211`.  If you need another lower bandwidth NIC, perhaps as a router, put the `I219` on the slower link like the upstream Internet connection.

Plug in the cables and call it a day, but I bet if you mix-up the cables, you'll never notice and both will work great anyways.

Anyone have issues with either interface or driver?  Leave notes in the comments below.
